#summary How to compile the project from the source

= Installing the dependencies =

Download and compile the dependencies from the following links.

*Panda3D 1.8.0 / 1.8.x CVS*

http://www.panda3d.org/download.php?sdk&version=1.8.0

However, I recommand to use the devlopment vesrion (CVS) if you can. The Rocket's module in 1.8.0 has a critical bug with the drag'n'drop feature, and we use it for inventory management.
If you already have a 1.8.0 compiled or installed, it's not that terrible, you just have to remember not to drag and drop items (or you will witness the might of the segmentation fault).

*LibRocket 1.2.1*

http://librocket.com/download

*AngelScript == 2.25*

http://www.angelcode.com/angelscript/downloads.html

= Compiling on Windows =
On Windows, you must compile using the Microsoft Visual Studio compiler (Panda3D does not support MinGW).
Unfortunately the Visual Studio compiler has many issues, and compiling the game with it would actually require you to edit and recompile some dependencies yourself.
The following document explains what needs to be done:
http://code.google.com/p/fallout-equestria/source/browse/documents/msvc_procedure

It is strongly unadvised to compile on Windows if you're not a developer. You WILL go crazy.

= Compiling on Linux =
There's a CMake file at the root of the git repository. Install the cmake package if it's not already done.

Make sure you have all the dependencies installed first (cmake, panda3d, librocket, angelscript, sfml).

Go into the build directory, and type 'cmake ..' to generate the Makefile.
Once it's over, type 'make' to compile the project.

= Executing =
You must execute the game from the "build" directory.