#summary List and description of the planned skills.
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

This is the list of all the skills the game will implement and a short description of their influence on the games.
Skills will be used in specific actions, but can also unlock special dialogues, like in New Vegas.

This document is here to help us have a great deal of skills, like in the first Fallouts, but to make them all very useful to the game.
We also need help balancing the skills.

= Skill point system =
Like in Fallout, at each level you will receive a certain amount of skill points based on your Intelligence.
However, you will receive less skill points since some of them will be automatically attributed to the skills you used most between a level and the next one.

== Small Guns ==
Ability to fire small guns.

== Big Guns ==
Ability to fire big guns.

== Energy Guns ==
Ability to fire energy guns.

== Explosives ==
Ability to set up explosives and detect traps.
Ability to use explosive weapons such as grenades.

== Unarmed ==
Affect the hoof-to-hoof combat.

== Melee Weapons ==
Ability to use melee weapons.

== Medicine ==
(Merge of Doctor and First Aid from Fallout1/2/Tactics)
Ability to heal yourself or somepony else.
Ability to craft drugs (with Science).
A good level of medicine also improve the effect of drugs while decreasing the side-effects.

== Repair ==
Ability to repair stuff.
Will also decrease the decay rate of your equipment.

== Science ==
Helps you sciencing all over the place.

== Sneak ==
Decreases your chance of being detected when you're in the line of sight of somepony.

== Spellcasting ==
Allow you to learn more complicated spells and to use them more efficiently.

== Steal ==
Increases your chances of not getting caught when you steal from somepony.

== Barter ==
Helps you get lower price when you barter with wastelanders.
Will also bring a lot of dialogue possibilities.

== Outdoorspony ==
Ability to brew potions, and collect various items from animals and plants.
Affect the random encounters in the wastelands.

== Speech ==
Impact the quality of your speech and your ability to choose words wisely.
It is the major perk for dialogues.

== Gambling ==
Ability to play gambling games and bluff.
Apart from helping you winning money in casinos, it will also be one of the major skill for dialogues.